docs: announcement for 1.23 (#185)
cloudnative-pg/cloudnative-pg.github.io: content/blog/cloudnative-pg-1-23.0-released/index.md

---
title: "CloudNativePG 1.23.0, 1.22.3 and 1.21.5 Released!"
date: 2024-04-25T16:04:04+02:00
draft: false
image:
    url: wildlife-zoo-mammal-fauna-elephant-sri-lanka-988769-pxhere.com.jpg
    attribution: from <strong><a href="https://pxhere.com/en/photo/988769?utm_content=clipUser&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=pxhere">PxHere</a></strong>
author: gbartolini
tags:
 - release
 - postgresql
 - postgres
 - kubernetes
 - k8s
 - cloudnativepg
 - pdb
 - imagecatalog
summary: The CloudNativePG community has released the new 1.23 minor version and a new update for the supported 1.22 and 1.21 versions of the CloudNativePG operator.
---
The **CloudNativePG Community** is excited to announce the release of version
1.23.0 of the **CloudNativePG Operator**!

This release brings a host of new features and enhancements, including support
for PostgreSQL image catalogs, synchronization of user-defined replication
slots, and Pod Disruption Budget (PDB) configuration.

We've revised our Community support policy to prioritize one minor release at a
time, enhancing our focus and resources. Furthermore, we've extended the

> supplementary support period for the prior minor release to three months.

Reviewer: This makes it sound like we only have one release?
My understanding was we were going from 3 to 2?

Author: Effectively, this is what is going to happen. We went from 2 minor releases + 1 additional month, to 1 minor release + 3 months. So for at least 3 months we need to support 2 minor releases. With a 3 month delivery time of a release (like now), it still brings to a total of roughly 6 months of support.

> We've revised our Community support policy to prioritize one minor release at a
> time, enhancing our focus and resources. Furthermore, we've extended the
> supplementary support period for the prior minor release to three months.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've revised our Community support to enhance our focus and optimize resources.
The supported versions will be the last minor, plus the previous minor, which will be
supported for three months once the new minor is out.
This is in effect adding two more months to the outgoing minor over what we used to have.
```

## What's New in 1.23

PostgreSQL Image Catalogs
:   Say goodbye to PostgreSQL version management headaches! With image catalogs
    based on major versions, managing your database fleet has never been easier.
    Simply request the PostgreSQL major version you need and control how your
    databases stay up-to-date. We've introduced two new resources
    (`ClusterImageCatalog` and `ImageCatalog`) and a new stanza

>     (`spec.imageCatalogRef`), setting the stage for future defaults. You can use
>     the Community provided catalogs, third-party ones, or even build your own.

Reviewer: "future defaults" has a potential negative connotation.

```suggestion
    (`spec.imageCatalogRef`), setting the stage for simpler setting of default images.
    The Community will provide catalogs, and you could also use third-party ones,
    or even build your own.
```

Synchronization of User-Defined Replication Slots
:   Ensure seamless failover with extended physical replication slot

>     synchronization, now covering user-defined slots persist after failover.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    synchronization, now covering persistence of user-defined slots after failover.
```
